- -
Type: doc
Title: GomlNode
Order: 10
- -

# GomlNode
GomlNode is an important object to be a tree structure node handled by GrimoireJS.
GomlNode refers to information registered in GrimoireInterface registerNode, it is generated by parsing of Goml and so on.
From this object, nodes can be manipulated on the tree.
Also, since nodes manage and manage multiple components, you can do operations on them.

** Example **

- name field
- enabled field
- children field
- sendMessage method
- ... etc

## name
  ```Typescript
  Name: NSIdentity;
  ```
Indicates the name of this node.
## enabled
Toggle enable/disable of this node.
However, even if it is true, if the parent is invalidated, this node is invalidated.
If invalid, isActive including child nodes is false.
** If you want to judge whether it is valid or invalid, use isActive instead of enabled. **

## isActive
Get whether this node is valid or invalid.
If it is disabled, no message will be received.
## mounted
Indicates whether this node is mounted.
Mount refers to a state where the tree structure to which it belongs is under the control of GrimoireInterface.
Normally, all nodes are mounted, but they are not mounted in the following cases.

+ New instance created individually.
+ When a node is detached from a tree.
+ When parsing from Goml, it is between the instance creation and the completion of parsing.

In the unmounted state, the node is basically in a state where it is not functioning.
Also, you can not issue messages from nodes.
** mount **, ** unmount ** messages are issued when the mount state changes.

## tree
Returns the GrimoireInterface to which this node belongs.
Throws an exception if the node is not mounted.
## deleted
Indicates that this node has been deleted.
A deleted node is always unmounted and can not be mounted again.
# Companion
It is an object shared in the tree.
That is, all nodes in the same goml will refer to the same instance.
## parent
Reference the parent node of this node.
It is null on the root node.
Even if it is not mounted in the tree, it may become null.
## hasChildren
Indicates whether this node has child nodes
## getChildrenByClass
Search the child element by specifying the class attribute.
## getChildrenByNodeName
Search the child element by specifying the node name
## delete
Recursively delete this node and child nodes.
Deleted nodes are detached from the tree and can not be reused ** **.
When deleting * dispose * message will be sent.
## sendMessage
Send a message to the component of this node.
## broadcastMessage
Send the message recursively to this node and child elements.
## addChildByName
Add child nodes with node name and attributes specified.
```Typescript
  Var childNode = node.addChildByName ("mesh", {"geometry": "cube"});
```
## addChild
Specify an instance of the node and add it to the child node.
You can specify an index if necessary.
```Typescript
Node.addChild (childNode);
```
## callRecursively
Recursively call functions on child nodes.
## removeChild
** Delete ** if the instance of the specified node is a child node.
## detachChild
** Detach ** if the instance of the specified node is a child node.
Detaching is to be removed from the tree.
As unmounted, * unmount * message will be sent.
You can mount it again by addChilding to another mounted node.
```Typescript
Node1.detachChild (childNode);
Node2.addChild (childNode);
```
## detach
** Detach this node **.
## getAttribute
Specify the attribute name to obtain the value.
You can get the attributes of the default component of this node.
** Attributes of optional components can not be acquired **.
When accessing the optional component's attributes, you can either instantiate that component,
It can go through the target component interface.
## setAttribute
Specify the attribute name and set the value.
For details, see * getAttribute *.
## addAttribute
Add attributes to this node.
This attribute does not belong to any component, it is treated as an attribute of the node itself.
## setMounted
It is used in the system. **Please do not use. **
Index
The index as a child node of the parent node of this node.
If the parent does not exist, -1 is returned.
## removeAttribute
Deletes the specified attribute.
## addComponent
Add optional components to this node.
## getComponents
Gets a list of the components of this node.
## getComponent
Specify a name to retrieve the component.
## resolveAttributesValue
It is used in the system. **Please do not use. **
## checkTreeConstraints
It is used in the system. **Please do not use. **
## notifyActivenessUpdate
It is used in the system. **Please do not use. **
